.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH dfontmgr 1 "November  27, 2001"
.SH NAME
dfontmgr \- GUI frontend for defoma
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B defoma-id
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dfontmgr
is a GUI frontend for defoma. You can see the fonts registered to defoma,
their hints, their status (which applications they are succeeded or failed
to be registered), the applications using defoma framework, information
of the applications and the contents of their id-caches. You can also 
register a font by drag-and-drop'ing a font file, generating its hints
as much as possible by asking you some questions, unregister a registered 
font, change hints of and re-register a registered font. 
If a defoma-aware application uses an id-cache and if there's an identifier 
conflict (which means some fonts provide the same identifier) in the 
id-cache, you can set which font to provide the identifier. 
.SH Overview
There are two buttons Font and Application under the top menu which currently
consists only of the File menu.
.SH Font Information
There are three panes. The leftmost pane shows all font categories. When you
choose one of the categories, the list of all fonts registered in the category
is shown in the upper-right pane, and when you choose one of the fonts, its 
detailed information is shown in the lower-right pane.
.SH Application Information
There are three panes. The leftmost pane shows all applications using defoma
framework. When you choose one of the applications, its information is shown
in the upper-right pane. If the application make uses of id-caches, the
content is shown in the lower-right pane.
.SH Id Cache Pane
There are some buttons to control id-cache, one menu to specify which id-cache
is shown, and a column list to show the content of selected id-cache.
There are three columns: Type, Identifier and Font. The Type column represents
the type of the identifier (either of RealName, Alias, User-defined Alias or 
Substituted Id of the font) with its status (asterisk and plus means the Id
is provided by the Font). When you select one of the Id/Font pair, its 
information is shown in the Application Information pane (upper-right pane). 
You can re-sort the list by clicking one of the column title: Type, Identifier 
or Font. When several fonts provide the same identifier, you can force the 
specific font to provide the identifier by selecting the id/font pair and 
clicking the Install button. You can also force the specific font not to 
provide the identifier by clicking the Exclude button. You can clean up
this forced status by clicking the unset button.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defoma (1).
.BR dfontmgr (1).
