.TH Defoma::Subst 3pm "March  4, 2001"
.SH NAME
Defoma::Subst \- Defoma module to handle Subst cache/rule.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
use Defoma::Subst;

$Sb = defoma_subst_open(
.br
.RI "  rulename => " rulename ,
.br
.RI "  threshold => " threshold ,
.br
.RI "  idobject => " id_object ,
.br
.RI "  private => " private_flag
);

defoma_subst_close(
.IR subst_object
);

defoma_subst_register(
.IR subst_object ,
.IR font ,
.IR realname
);

defoma_subst_unregister(
.IR subst_object ,
.IR font
.IR realname
);

defoma_subst_add_rule(
.IR subst_object ,
.IR required_id ,
.IR rule...
);

defoma_subst_remove_rule(
.IR subst_object ,
.IR required_id ,
.IR rule...
);

.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
Defoma::Subst is a Defoma module to handle subst\-cache and subst\-rule.
When a certain id is required but not provided as RealName or Alias
by any font, fonts which have similar appearance and the same characters
should substitute for such a font. Required ids and their information
about appearance and charset things (called *rule*) are described in a 
subst\-rule. 
Defoma::Subst compares such a rule of a certain required id with hints of a 
substitutive font and calculates the degree of similarity in percentage, and
registers the required id and the font with the value as its priority
as 'Substituted' type to an id\-cache through Defoma::Id module.
.PP
subst\-rule is mainly edittable by users, which means users edit 
subst\-rule file to add/remove/modify
the required ids and their information, but sometimes unedittable by them
and modified by a Defoma\-configuration script. 
The former is called
.B public
subst\-rule and the latter is called
.B private
subst\-rule.
.PP
subst\-cache holds fonts which are candidacies for substituting for 
required ids. As mentioned above, a rule of a required id and hints
of such a font are compared. Hints are not recorded in a subst\-cache 
so retrieved from an id\-cache. In addition a required id and its rule
are recorded in an subst\-rule, so subst\-cache, subst\-rule and id\-cache 
are strongly linked up. Especially subst\-cache and subst\-rule are
not separatable and Defoma::Subst handles these two through a single united
object.
.PP
.B defoma_subst_open
is a function used to open a subst\-cache and subst\-rule specified by
.I rulename
and
.I private_flag
and returns the
.I subst_object 
used for further operation.
If the subst\-rule is private one, set
.I private_flag
to non-zero. Otherwise it can be omitted. The subst\-rule becomes public.
.I id_object
must be specified because subst\-cache and subst\-rule are strongly
linked up to id\-cache as mentioned above. Hints of a substitutive font
are retrieved from the id\-cache specified by the
.IR id_object , 
and required ids described in the subst\-rule are registered to the id\-cache.
.I threshold
prevents fonts that have less degree of similarity from being registered.
If a required id is already registered in the id\-cache, substitutive
fonts whose degree of similarity are less than this 
.I threshold
are not registered to an id\-cache. 
.PP
.B defoma_subst_close
is a function used to close a subst\-cache and subst\-rule specified by 
.IR subst_object .
Internally it writes the content of cache and rule stored in a memory
to files.
.PP
.B defoma_subst_register
is a function used to register a font which is candidate for substituting
for required ids to the subst\-cache specified by
.IR subst_object .
RealName of the font must be specified.
.PP
.B defoma_subst_unregister
is a function used to unregister a font from the subst\-cache specified by
.IR subst_object .
RealName can be omitted.
.PP
.B defoma_subst_add_rule
is a function used to add a required id and its rule to the subst\-rule
specified by
.IR subst_object .
.PP
.B defoma_subst_remove_rule
is a function used to remove a required id and its rule from the subst\-rule
specified by
.IR sbst_object .
If
.I rule
is omitted, all the rules describing the 
.I required_id
are removed from the subst\-rule. Otherwise only one rule specified by
.IR "rule " and " required_id "
is removed.
.SH EXAMPLES
1. Open private subst\-rule and subst\-rule.

.nf
$Id = defoma_id_open();
$Sb = defoma_subst_open(rulename => 'subst1', 
                        idobject => $Id);
.fi

2. Register a substitutive font.

.nf
defoma_id_register($Id, type => 'real',
                   font => $font,
                   id => $realname,
                   priority => $priority,
                   hints => join(' ', @_));
defoma_subst_register($Sb, $font, $realname);
.fi

3. Unregister.

.nf
defoma_subst_unregister($Id, $font);
defoma_id_unregister($Id, 'real', $font);
.fi

4. Add a rule.

.nf
defoma_subst_add_rule($Sb, 'Helvetica', @hints);
.fi

5. Remove all rules for Helvetica.

.nf
defoma_subst_remove_rule($Sb, 'Helvetica');
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defoma (1).
.BR Defoma::Id (1).

