.TH defoma-app 1 "March  4, 2001"
.SH NAME
defoma-app \- configure a specific application about fonts registered
in Debian Font Manager.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B defoma-app
.RI [ options ] 
.B clean
.I application [category..]
.br
.B defoma-app
.RI [ options ] 
.B update
.I application [category..]
.br
.B defoma-app
.RI [ options ] 
.B purge
.I application
.br
.B defoma-app
.RI [ options ] 
.B ignore
.I application [category..]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B defoma-app
is a tool to configure the fonts registered in Defoma, Debian Font Manager, 
for a specific application. Defoma calls the Defoma-configuration script
of the specified application with register or unregister command for each
of the fonts registered in the categories accepted by the application.
It is supposed to be invoked from postinst/prerm scripts of application
packages, but may be invoked from console.
.PP
.I application
specifies the name of the application that is going to be configured.
The specified application must have
.nh
.IR application-name .defoma
.hy
perl script under 
.nh
/usr/share/defoma/scripts.
.hy
If
.I category
is specified, only the fonts in the specified categories get processed. 
Otherwise all the fonts in all the categories accepted by the application get
processed.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B update
Update the configuration of the specified
.I application
about the fonts registered in the specified
.IR category .
.I category
can be omitted. When it is specified and the specified category is set
.B ignored
(to be mentioned later), 
.B ignore
flag gets unset so the category gets updated.
Internally the Defoma-configuration script of the
application gets called with 
.B unregister
command first and then with
.B register
command for each font of the category. Some directories and symlinks
specified in the header of the script might be generated automatically.
.br
This command should be invoked when the Defoma-configuration script is
newly installed or updated so that the script gets installed to Defoma
data directory and the fonts get configured to the application. It means 
it is supposed to be invoked on the postinst configure phase. 
.TP
.B clean
Clean up the configuration of the specified
.I application
about the fonts registered in the specified
.IR category .
.I category
can be omitted. Internally the Defoma-configuration script of the
application gets called with 
.B unregister 
command for each font of the category.
.TP
.B purge
This command is almost the same as
.B clean
command. It only differs on removing the script installed in the defoma data
directory and some directories and symlinks if any was generated 
in the update command before.
.br
This command should be invoked when the Defoma-configuration script is
going to be removed so that the script gets removed and the font configuration
gets cleaned. It means it is supposed to be invoked on the prerm remove phase.
.TP
.B ignore
This command makes the specified
.I application
not use the fonts registered in the specified
.IR category .
It removes the fonts in the category out of the font configuration and
sets the `ignore' flag against the category in order to make the 
Defoma-configuration script of the application not accept fonts in the
category. If
.I category
is omitted, all categories gets ignored. To unset the `ignore' flag,
run defoma-app with 
.B update
command and the category against which you want to unset the flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
Exit with true value (0) even if error occurs.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output.
.TP
.B \-d
Debug/Testing mode.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defoma (1).


