.TH Defoma::Font 3pm "March  4, 2001"
.SH NAME
Defoma::Font \- Defoma module to handle font and font\-cache.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
use Defoma::Font;

defoma_font_register(
.IR category ,
.IR font ,
.IR hints...
);

defoma_font_unregister(
.IR category ,
.IR font
);

defoma_font_reregister(
.IR category ,
.IR font ,
.IR hints...
);

defoma_font_if_register(
.IR category ,
.IR font
);

@fonts = defoma_font_get_fonts(
.IR category
);

@hints = defoma_font_get_hints(
.IR category ,
.IR font
);

%failedapps = defoma_font_get_failed (
.IR category ,
.IR font
);

.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
Defoma::Font is a Defoma module to handle registration/unregistration
of fonts and font-caches. It provides functions listed above which are 
supposed to be called from Defoma\-configuration scripts when the scripts 
want to register/unregister a font, and need to retrieve the data recorded 
in a font\-cache, which holds fonts and their hints.
.PP
.B defoma_font_register
is a function used to register a specified
.I font
into a specified
.I category
with specified 
.IR hints .
If the specified font is already registered,
it returns non-zero. Otherwise the font and the hints are registered into the
font\-cache of the specified category, and further Defoma-configuration 
scripts get called which accept the specified category with register 
command.
.PP
.B defoma_font_unregister
is a function used to unregister a specified
.I font
from a specified
.IR category .
If the font is not registered in the category, it returns non-zero.
Otherwise further Defoma-configuration scripts get called which accept
the specified category with unregister command, and the font and the
hints are removed from the font\-cache of the category.
.PP
.B defoma_font_reregister
is a function which actually calls 
.I defoma_font_unregister
and
.I defoma_font_register
in order. If a specified
.I font
if not registered in a specified
.IR category ,
unregisteration is skipped. If the font is already registered in another
category, it returns non-zero.
.PP
.B defoma_font_if_register
if a function that checks if a specified
.I font
is registered in a specified
.IR category .
If the font is registered, it returns non-zero. Otherwise it returns zero.
.PP
.B defoma_font_get_fonts
is a function used to obtain a list of fonts reigstered in the
specified
.IR category .
It returns a list of fonts in an array.
(font1 font2 font3 ...)
.PP
.B defoma_font_get_hints
is a function used to obtain hints of the specified
.I font
registered in the specified
.IR category .
It returns a list of hints in an array.
.PP
.B defoma_font_get_failed
is a function used to obtain applications for which Defoma failed to 
configure the specified
.IR font .
It returns a hash whose keys are applications and whose values are
error status.
.SH EXAMPLES
1. Register 'Helvetica-Bold' in postscript category with hints.

.nf
$font = 'Helvetica-Bold';
@hints = ('--Family', 'Helvetica', '--Weight', 'Bold',
          '--Charset', 'ISO8859-1);

defoma_font_register('postscript', $font, @hints);
.fi

2. Unregister 'foo.pfa' from type1 category.

.nf
$font = '/usr/share/fonts/foo.pfa';

defoma_font_unregister('type1', $font);
.fi

3. Unregister 'foo.pfa' from type1 category if registered.

.nf
$font = '/usr/share/fonts/foo.pfa';

if (defoma_font_if_register('type1', $font)) {
  defoma_font_unregister('type1', $font);
}
.fi

4. Get a list of fonts and their hints.

.nf
%hash = ();
@fonts = defoma_font_get_fonts('x-postscript');
foreach $font (@fonts) {
  $hash{$font} = [];
  @{$hash{$font}} = defoma_font_get_hints('x-postscript', $font);
}
.fi

