.TH DH_INSTALLDEFOMA 1 "20 August 2000" "Debhelper Commands" "Debhelper Commands"
.SH NAME
dh_installdefoma \- install a defoma related scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dh_installdefoma
.I "[debhelper options] [-n]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
dh_installdefoma is a debhelper program that is responsible for installing
files related to defoma (DEbian FOnt MAnager) into package build directories. dh_installdefoma
can be used by defoma-aware packages and/or font packages using defoma.
.P
It also automatically generates the postinst and pre/postrm commands needed to
register a package as a defoma-aware and/or font package using defoma. See
.BR dh_installdeb (1)
for an explanation of how this works.
.P
If a file named debian/package.defoma exists, then it is installed into
usr/share/defoma/scripts/package.defoma in the package build directory and put
an un/registration method in maintainer scripts with defoma-app.    
If a file named debian/package.defoma-hints exists, then it is installed in
etc/defoma/hints/package.hints in the package build
directory and put an un/registration method in maintainer scripts with defoma-font.
So when you create a defoma font package, what you need to do is
only to put its hints file in debian/package.defoma-hints and install font files written
in the hints file in the appropriate locations. When you create a defoma-aware
package, what you need to do is only to put its defoma-script file in
debian/package.defoma. The script file is automatically installed in the
package build directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B debhelper options
See
.BR debhelper (1)
for a list of options common to all debhelper commands.
.TP
.B \-n, \--noscripts
Do not modify postinst/postrm scripts.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
See
.BR debhelper (1)
for a list of environment variables that affect all debhelper commands.
.SH NOTES
Note that this command is not idempotent. "dh_clean -k" should be called
between invocations of this command. Otherwise, it may cause multiple
instances of the same text to be added to maintainer scripts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.BR debhelper (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Masato Taruishi <taru@debian.org>

